This is Miao Wang
I'm a software engineer working on
Android Neural Networks API at Google
Today I'm happy to talk about how to
accelerate ML inferences on mobile devices
with the help of Android Neural Networks API
Slide 2
slide-2
This talk will cover the following topics
WHat is NN API?
THe current features of NN API
THe performance and power impact if you're using NN API
and how to use NN API
Slide 3
slide-3
So first of all, what is NN API?
Slide 4
slide-4
As the name suggests
NNAPI is intended to run neural networks
inferences on hardware accelerators.
NNAPI is a C API.
We choosed a C API mainly because
they are having stable interfaces and can easily be used
by high-level programming languages like java
and machine learning frameworks like tensorlow-lite and pytorch-mobile.
As we all know, the ML area is evolving fast
there are new concepts, operators and datatypes continuously coming out.
All of this requires NNAPI API are also able to evolve fast.
Additionnally, since the closer to the metal,
the harder it is to evolve,
we want to make sure existing models and use cases
can run well on old and new hardware
so backwards compatibility is also important in the API.
Here is a brief history of NN API:
NN API 1.0 was introduced with Android O-MR1,
it had 29 operators, supports fp32
and asymmetric quantization.
And in Android P, we added a bunch of operators.
With Android Q, there are a lot more operators added,
and we started to support fp16
and signed per-channel quantization.
And additionally, developers can use introspection API
to query available accelerators on the device
and choose which accelerators to use to run inferences.
Also vendors can use vendor extension mechanism
to add additional functionalites to NN API.
In the a soon-to-be-released Android R
we added more operators,
we started support signed asymmetric quantization.
Also there are advanced features like
Control Flow, Quality of Sservice, memory domains,
asynchronous command queue being supported
We also made NN API runtime to be updatable APEX module
which means we are able to update the runtime much faster
than the normal Android update schedule.
Slide 5
slide-5
The key objective of NN API is to make inferences
run fast and efficiently
on as many devices as possible.
In order to achieve that,
we need to make sure that
the inferences running through NN API can run on
accelerators available on the device
How do we achieve that?
Slide 6
slide-6
Here is a high-level overview of the architecture of NN API.
You can find 2 important interfaces defined
by NN API in this architecture:
the NDK API interface,
and the hardware abstraction, the HAL layer.
Application developers can use the NDK API
to interact with NN API runtime,
likely through ML frameworks
like pytorch-mobile, tensorflow-lite.
I'll talk more about the NDK interface
in the How to Use NN API section.
Hardware vendors implement the NN API HAL interface
which allow the API runtime
to discover available hardware accelerators
and interact with them.
The HAL is versionned and backwards compatible,
similar to the NDK interfaces.
Currently there are many accelerators
already implemented in NN API HAL.
That's including the GPU, DSP, TPU and NPU, etc
from various hardware vendors and IP providers.
THe NN API runtime is responsible
for validating the requests from applications,
managing the memory,
distributing workloads to available accelerators
and it is in charge of interacting
with other components in Android OS.
You can find more information about the architecture
in the link on the slide.
Slide 7
slide-7
So, let's talk about some performance and power numbers.
As I mentioned earlier,
the key objective of NN API is
to make inferences run fast and efficiently.
Both performance and power consumption are important
for the user experience on mobile devices.
Slide 8
slide-8
Here is the slide that's showing the numbers
of running Google Lens OCR model on Pixel 4
where we are shipping Android Q next year.
So we can see that NN API path is 3X the performance
of the optimized CPU kernel of TF-lite.
It also uses 3.7x less power
which is critical in this particular use case.
Additionally, the whole model runs on DSP instead of the CPU
which frees up the CPU
for other workloads if needed.
Slide 9
slide-9
We can see similarly great improvements
for models running on other different SoCs.
Here is an example of MLKit Face detection model
on a device with Mediatek P90 SoC.
As we know ML is evolving fast,
and there are more and more models running on mobile devices.
And different models running on different devices
measure different characteristics on performance.
So we're continually working hard
to optimize the software layers
and introduce new features to make inferences faster.
Slide 10
slide-10
Now in order to get all the performance gains,
we need to know how to use NN API.
Let's talk about that.
Slide 11
slide-11
Well, due to limited time of this talk,
I can only briefly talk about different ways of using NN API.
For detailed tutorials and documentations,
especially for the advanced features,
please refer to the links on the slides.
First of all, the developers can use NN API directly.
All NN API functions and types start with ANeuralNetworks
and the general workflow of the code is something like the below:
well, we first create and define
a compute graph called ANeuralNetworksModel.
And then we can create the compilation object
which is ANeuralNetworksCompilation
from the model
and after we created the compilation object,
we can then create execution object
from the compilation object
to run and manage each individual inference.
But all this involves lots of boilerplate code
if you want to make sure that the whole model
is being implemented in NN API directly.
So there is an easier way to use NN API
that's via the Machine Learning frameworks
like PyTorch-mobile, TensorFlow-Lite.
You can also use NN API with the other high-level APIs like WebNN.
If you're using TensorFlow-Lite,
there are a couple lines of change to enable NnApiDelegate
which can automatically detect
the supported operations
and run the supported operations through NNAPI.
Slide 12
slide-12
That's all I have for today,
thanks a lot and let me know
if you have any questions.